CA1845 (#24270)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1845.md

---
title: "CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat' (analysis rule)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat'"
ms.date: 05/18/2021
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
  - "UseSpanBasedStringConcat"
  - "CA1845"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "UseSpanBasedStringConcat"
  - "CA1845"
author: NewellClark
dev_langs:
  - CSharp

>   - VB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
# CA1845: Use span-based 'string.Concat'

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |CA1845|
| **Category** |[Performance](performance-warnings.md)|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

> This rule locates string-concatenation expressions that contain `Substring` calls and suggests replacing `Substring` with `AsSpan` and using the span-based overload of `string.Concat`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule locates string-concatenation expressions that contain <xref:System.String.Substring%2A> calls and suggests replacing <xref:System.String.Substring%2A> with <xref:System.MemoryExtensions.AsSpan%2A> and using the span-based overload of <xref:System.String.Concat%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
```

## Rule description

> Calling `Substring` produces a copy of the extracted substring. By using `AsSpan` instead of `Substring` and calling the overload of `string.Concat` which accepts spans, we can eliminate this unnecessary string allocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling `Substring` produces a copy of the extracted substring. By using `AsSpan` instead of `Substring` and calling the overload of `string.Concat` that accepts spans, you can eliminate the unnecessary string allocation.
```

## How to fix violations

To fix violations:

> 1) Replace the string concatenation with a call to `string.Concat`, and
> 2) Replace calls to `Substring` with calls to `AsSpan`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Replace the string concatenation with a call to `string.Concat`, and
2. Replace calls to `Substring` with calls to `AsSpan`.
```
